# RhodopseudomonasPalustris
The genome-scale metabolic model for the purple non-sulfur bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris Bis A53 accurately predicts phenotypes under chemoheterotrophic, chemoautotrophic, photoheterotrophic, and photoautotrophic growth conditions

The purple non-sulfur bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris is recognized as a critical microorganism in the nitrogen and carbon cycle and one of the most common members in microbial communities for wastewater treatment. This bacterium is metabolically extremely versatile, able to grow aerobically and anaerobically under heterotrophic conditions, while also being able of photoautotrophic and mixotrophic growth. Moreover, R. palustris can degrade a wide range of pollutants under anaerobic conditions, e.g., aromatic compounds such as benzoate and caffeate, enabling it to thrive in chemically contaminated environments. Different organisms (plants, fungi, and other bacteria) have been found to form symbiotic relationships with R. palustris, playing different metabolic roles depending on the environment. R. palustris can adapt to multiple environments and establish commensal relationships, expressing multiple enzymes capable to degrade amino acids, carbohydrates, nucleotides, complex polymers and even pollutants. However, many of the metabolic mechanisms employed by R. palustris to assimilate and breakdown different carbon and nitrogen nutrients available in nature under chemoheterotrophic and photoheterotrophic conditions remain unknown. Systems biology approaches have been employed extensively to unravel complex mechanisms of metabolism. Previously, metabolic models have been reconstructed and employed to study specific capabilities and pathways of R. palustris under limited experimental conditions. Here, we developed a comprehensive M-model for R. palustris Bis A53 (iDT1294), which consists of 2,721 reactions, 2,123 metabolites, and comprises 1,294 genes. We validated the model using high-throughput phenotypic, physiological, and kinetics data, testing more than 300 growth conditions. iDT1294 achieved a prediction accuracy of 90% for growth with carbon and nitrogen sources and close to 80% for assimilation of aromatic compounds. Moreover, the M-model accurately predict the dynamic changes of the growth and substrate consumption rates across time under nine chemoheterotrophic conditions (R2>97%). iDT1294 demonstrated high precision to estimate the metabolic changes between photoheterotrophic and photoautotrophic conditions for kinetics data. This comprehensive M-model will help to elucidate metabolic processes associated with multiple carbon and nitrogen sources assimilation, anoxygenic photosynthesis, aromatic compounds degradation, and production of molecular hydrogen and PHB. iDT1294 provides a new framework for the study of R. palustris from a system-level approach, generating accurate physiological data for steady state and dynamics conditions. 
